# Project Proposal MIS3640:
## Will Appleton, Kristina Ferguson, Alexander Rosemond

1. **The Big Idea:**
    The idea for our project is to consolidate information regarding a students academic plan, specifically for Babson students. This would entail compiling information regarding concentration requirement, course offering for each semester, what course level it is, what requirements they have left to fill, and so on. Currently, this information is spread across numerous web pages and the process of choosing classes for each semester is a stressful, time-intensive process and we would like to create a tool that would aid in alleviating some of these issues. The software design that we would create throughout the duration of the project would be an interactive platform for students to input the type of information they want and the program would return this information to them. 
    The minimum viable product for us would be a Python program that Juniors or Seniors at Babson could use to obtain a list of classes that meet their concentration requirements and are being offered that semester. The stretch goal for this project is to have a fully functional interface for students of any age to use that will be able to return them with any desired information they could need to know and understand the trajectory of their “career” in Babson. Essentially, it would function as an interactive way to aid students in filling out their degree worksheet.
2. **Learning Goals:**
    Some of the main goals for our team include increasing our understanding of the ways in which Python programming can be implemented into our lives as well as the ways we can integrate Python with other softwares to create an extremely useful product. Additionally, we would all like to end this project being able to say that our software design and problem solving skills have improved and that we will come out of this with enough personal experience that will aid us in our future careers. Some of Kristina’s additional goals are to learn how to work on a project of this nature in a virtual environment, as it is related to what she hopes to be doing during her virtual internship this summer. Some of Will’s individual goals are to better understand the connection between front-end and back-end development, to get further experience writing and implementing code, and also debugging and learning from others in reviewing their code. Finally, some of Alex’s individual goals are to better understand coding and complete a project that can be mentioned on his resume and spoken about in job interviews. 
3. **Implementation Plan:**
    Over the course of the next two weeks we hope to learn more about web scraping from class or outside meeting with Professor Li. If we are still struggling we can turn to slack for more information or ask specific questions on sites related to coding in python. Once we figure out how to acquire and store the information the coding would mostly be using “input” to store information provided by the user and “if” statements to print the correct information for the user. From a broad perspective in the next week we would like to set the initial requirements for our product, from there we would like to outline the design of the overall product in terms of completing the outlined requirements. We then want to code the initial project based on our requirements and design. From there the team plans to test the code and identify bugs and problems but also find areas that can be expanded upon. From there the team wants to iterate and repeat this process if we have time in the hopes of creating our final stretch product.
4. **Project Schedule:**
    In the first weeks, the web scraping for the information about concentrations and course listing would be the priority. Once we have the information, the second task is to store it in an appropriate structure so that it is usable. The second task would be done by the fourth or fifth week. Finally, the final coding is what we would be working on the rest for the remaining time. This code would allow the user to receive the appropriate information after feeding in their information. Also if we have time remaining and have achieved our minimum viable product, then we will code a website to make the code more usable and presentable.  
5. **Collaboration Plan:**
    The team plans to work on tasks separately and independently and then integrate them all together. From there each member of the team will be assigned someone else’s code to review and test. We feel that this is the most effective structure for accomplishing tasks remotely. Each individual is in a different state and has different schedules and it may not be realistic or efficient to try and pair program the entire project. Subsequently, by delegating tasks individually and then allowing peers to review the code we will be able to complete tasks and identify sticking points in the project that we can then collectively try and solve. One important thing to note is that the code needs to be consistent throughout the project and we think that it will be important to have frequent meetings (once or twice a week) to integrate the code. This will save us the hassle of having to match potentially large blocks of code in order to integrate them. 
    We think that implementing the waterfall methodology will set up the team best to succeed remotely. We can set minimum viable base requirements and then subsequently match our software design and actual code to these requirements. From there we can “verify” or test our code and determine bugs or potential areas that can be improved or even expanded on. From there the team can iterate the entire process if the product is viable and there is sufficient time to expand the product's capacity/purpose. The waterfall method allows us to pace ourselves appropriately which is important especially when working remotely. It also allows us to remain structured if we are to create successive versions of our product. 
6. **Risks:**
    The biggest risk we view to the success of the project is storing the data that we collect from Babson’s websites. We see this as a risk because the project requires the data to be usable for code while still being able to provide a lot of information to the user. There is also potential for our project to require coding in other programming languages or we must utilize python programming that is quite advanced that could interfere with our ability to complete the project in an efficient fashion. 
7. **Additional Course Content:**
	Being able to navigate the issues that arise while we try to program this software will be essential in our ability to continue making progress toward our goals. Therefore, the ASYNC class on debugging will be very insightful for us and give us some tools and tricks to solve the problems as they arise. Additionally, the information that we will learn in relation to Object-Oriented Programming, specifically OOP inheritance, will give us the skills to be able pull information from the various tables they are stored in and return only the information that is useful to each individual. 