## **Welcome to Kristina and Alex's Software Design Project!**

### About Us

Hi! Our names are Kristina Ferguson and Alexander Rosemond and we are juniors at Babson College. During our junior year we took the class Problem Solving and Software Design and were able to learn all about coding in Python. We learned a lot in this class and were able to accumulate all that we had learned throughout the semester to generate this final project. We hope that you enjoy learning more about the work we did as much as we enjoyed creating it!

### About Our Project

As Junior's at Babson, we had already gone through several class registration cycles and noticed that finding classes that would fulfill your requirements was not an simply or easy process. This information was spread across mutiple web pages and required students to go between mutiple pages in order to find the classes they could take. We saw an opportunity to utilize what we had learned in our Problem Solving and Software design class to create a tool that Babson students could utilize in order to simplify this process. In order to allevate this problem for Babson students, we created several Python scripts in order to concatenate all of this information into one source and develop a user interface for students to easily query our database of information to return a list of the classes that are available based upon their designated filter. 

To help highlight what our software does, let's see how this software can help a student named Jenn. Jenn is a rising junior at Babson concentration in Accounting. She is preparing for the upcoming class registration and wants to know what classes are available this semester that will help her begin to fulfill her Accounting concentration and other degree requirements. Jenn begins by trying to cross-reference across the Babson Course Listing site, the Babson concentration requirment pages, and her degree worksheet but gets increasingly frustrated with how time-consuming and difficult this is. Then she remembers that her friend's Kristina and Alex just created a software program to help her find the classes she needs to take for her requirements! She navigated to the website that they built and utilized several of their tools. First she looked for all the possible classes she could take that semester for her Accounting concentration using the Concentration Course Finder. Then, she wanted to find an HSS class to take so she utilized the Course Type Finder. Finally, she used the Course Level Finder to find other courses that would begin to fufill some of her Advanced Liberal Arts Electives. And voila! Now Jenn has found all of the classes she will take that semester while ensuring that she is on her way to fulfill all her degree and concentration requirments!

### Try out our software for yourself!
To run the code for the project, a person needs to download flask using the code "pip install Flask"
in command prompt and to download vscode. Once a person has downloaded Flask and vscode onto their computer, they can go to app.py and use the play button in the upper right corner to start the web app. Then the person can click on the link to the web app (in the termninal starting with http) and use the functionalities we built into the web app. One of the three functionalities in the web app is returning a list, of courses available for a specified semester that fulfills requirements for a specific concentration. The second functionality returns a list of available courses based on course code, and finally, the last use of the web app is returning a list based on the course level.

